No overview of Data Studio would be complete without
looking into two more powerful key features of the product,
filter control and data control.
Remember how in your work in Google Analytics,
you learned to enhance the built-in reports using filters to
narrow the scope of the data you are working in either for display,
comparison, or further exploration?
That same functionality exists in Data Studio.
The ability to filter your data.
It also allows you to enhance and build interactivity into your dashboards and reports.
Similarly, you've created multiple views in
Google Analytics either for particular domains,
internal audiences and for implementation purposes.
Well, Data Studio was built so that you can apply
your charts and filters to other views on the fly, potentially,
saving you time in creating additional dashboards from scratch
and further enabling data visualization across your organization.
Both the filter control and data control are easily added and configured,
similar to the work that we've done with charts.
So let's get started by heading back into the interface and updating
the sample dashboard for
the Google merchandise store demo account that we've been working on.
As you can see, I've taken the liberty of tidying this up just a bit,
mostly just to make space for the two controls we're about to add.
Just like charts, you can add these controls anywhere on the page.
But I've cleared out some room at the top for ours.
We're going to begin by adding the filter control.
One of the more common filter controls allows you to
filter the data in your charts by device type,
desktop, mobile and tablet.
We're going to go ahead and add this one here.
We begin by selecting filter control from the toolbar,
dragging to draw and letting go.
Now we're going to put this one at the top here and we
don't know yet if we're going to put it in the middle or on the side,
but we will figure that out after.
Just like our charts, when we draw this,
it comes pre-populated with other choices,
so we need to go in and tell it what we want it to filter.
Our dimension here is source,
that's not what we want.
We want ours to be device type that lives under platformer device,
device category. There we go.
Now as soon as you click it,
you'll see that the label changes on the interface letting you know that
it has heard you and it's ready to make that change for you.
Let's go back now and look at the metric.
The metric here says sessions.
We know that that's not what we want.
This chart has been about revenue and we want to
go ahead and continue to make it about revenue.
So we're going to go ahead,
add, get that right on e-commerce, revenue.
Now, once we think it's done, which is now,
we're going to go back into view mode and make sure that it's working.
So what should it do?
What it should do is allow us to select tablet and mobile and desktop in any combination.
Any one individually, any two at a time, or all three at a time,
and then based on that filter,
reflect changes in our charts.
This right now is defaulted to showing all three.
Looks like tablet is the least amount of revenue,
mobile next and the vast majority of sales are on desktop.
Let's look at mobile by itself.
Excellent. And you can see that all of our charts have
updated and now are reflecting data based on this filter.
We can go ahead and add mobile and tablet.
Doesn't make a huge change but again,
you can see that it's working dynamically.
We're going to go back into edit mode,
I didn't think I left quite enough room.
So we're going to make this just a tad smaller and for now,
we're going to put it in the middle and you can see that we can
drag it and drop it and make it approximately the same size.
We can go into here and look at our style and see that we have the font set to 18.
We can go into here and also set the font to 18.
And now, we've got this little space left on the top left.
Now adding the data control,
is even more straight forward than adding the filter control.
You select it from the menu,
drag it to draw and let go.
Over here, you can see that it's already honed
in on our connector type which is Google Analytics.
We're going to go ahead and just drag it approximately where we think we want
it and go back into view mode and see what happens.
Now, if we click this arrow,
it should show us all of the views that we have access to in this property, and it does.
So we can go ahead and say, "Alright.
We've been working in the master view,
let's see if there's anything different in
the raw data view for any filters have been applied."
And you can see that this isn't configured to show us
any significant changes and I don't
think anything spent on the test view either, but that's okay.
When you're using this,
go ahead and check a few of the different views that you have access
to to make sure that the changes are being reflected on your charts.
Adding filter and view controls,
is just another way to leverage the flexibility of Data Studio.
Combined with the chart types and style options available,
you've become empowered to create your own dashboard
either based on the Google merchandise store demo account,
or your own analytics account.
But before you do that,
let's finish this lesson by comparing and
contrasting the two dashboard options you now have,
the one that's native inside of Google Analytics and Data Studio.